---
title: Laurie Labs, genesis
categories: [startup]
tags: [green]
layout: post
description: Next start up idea
author: martin
image: https://live.staticflickr.com/3753/11079749565_f30bd2aa5c_k.jpg
featured: true
hidden: true
rating: 4.5
comments: true
---

My wife and I grew up during the only-child era of China, which means no
siblings, in 10 years, the two of us will be supporting four parents, our 
kids, and ourselves.

My family is blue-collar, both my parents are hairdressers and earned
their living humbly. They do ok for themselves, and raised me with the
best they can provide, including putting me through one of the most
expensive private colleges in the States. However, they don't have hefty
savings, or trust funds or ever spent time figuring out long-term care
insurances. My mother, who taught me to have grit and the values of
self-reliance, often reminds me that she does not want me to worry about
her when she gets older. "Just send me to a nursing home and be done
with it, I'm ok." She would say. She doesn't know it, but it hurts me
whenever she says that, since I also know it will be unrealistic for me
to physically be there with her all the time.

**While we do not typically think about our parents getting older, this
process is irreversible and inevitable.**

Tackling this as I would anything else in life, I decided to plan for
this foreseeable situation, and think through the scenarios and how I
would keep controllable elements, well, under control.

My situation isn't unique, but rather becoming a megatrend in most
developed regions of the world. People are living longer, while the
wealth gap causes people to have less kids. The result is called the
[Demographic
Inversion](https://prospect.org/article/demographic-inversion./_).
According to the UN world population projections, by 2030, there will be
more 70-year-olds than there are 20-year-olds. Less young people to take
care of the old, will create disparate ratios of care-workers to those
in need.

The challenge is to create a system which allows seniors to age
comfortably and gracefully, through assistive technology, while not
depending on substantial number of human care-workers. Such a system
supplies Dignity Independence to seniors. Building it is both an urgent
challenge for my own family, and a looming challenge for society at
large.

<img src="/assets/images/laurielabs/population.gif" alt="population projections"/>

To think about senior living, I chose to focus on Activities of Daily
Living, or ADLs. This is defined as "The tasks of everyday life. Basic
ADLs include eating, dressing, getting into or out of a bed or chair,
taking a bath or shower, and using the toilet. Instrumental activities
of daily living (IADL) are activities related to independent living and
include preparing meals, managing money, shopping, doing housework, and
using a telephone."[^1] Today, ADLs are performed for seniors by nursing
professionals, in both private institutions as well as one-off in-home
visits. In the future, all of these activities can be completed by
seniors themselves, through the assistance of AI and robotic systems.

"The national annual median cost of care now ranges from nearly
\$106,000 for a private room in a nursing home to \$19,240 for adult day
health care services (based on five days per week per year) according to
the Cost of Care Survey 2020 by Genworth Financial. A semi-private room
ran \$7,756 a month, or \$93,075 per year."[^2] This is the price range
to match or beat.

My mission with Laurie Labs is to create AI and robotic systems which
can aid seniors to achieve dignity independence.

[^1]: [source](https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/adl)

[^2]: [source](https://health.usnews.com/best-nursing-homes/articles/how-to-pay-for-nursing-home-costs#:~:text=The%20national%20annual%20median%20cost,month%2C%20or%20%2493%2C075%20per%20year.)
